Questions 14-16
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 14-16 on your answer sheet.
14 What point does the writer make about microbes in the first paragraph?
A They adapt quickly to their environment.
B_ The risk they pose has been exaggerated.
C_ They are more plentiful in animal life than plant life.
D_ They will continue to exist for longer than the human race.
15 Inthe second paragraph, the writer is impressed by the fact that
A each species tends to have vastly different microbes.
B some parts of the body contain relatively few microbes.
C the average individual has more microbial cells than human ones.
D _ scientists have limited understanding of how microbial cells behave.
16 Whatis the writer doing in the fifth paragraph?
A explaining how a discovery was made
B comparing scientists’ theories about microbes
C_ describing confusion among scientists
D giving details of how microbes cause disease

Questions 17-20
Complete the summary using the list of words, A-H, below.
Write the correct letter, A-H, in boxes 17-20 on your answer sheet.
We should be more tolerant of microbes
Yong’s book argues that we should be more tolerant of microbes. Many have a
beneficial effect, and only a relatively small number lead tO 17 meme «ANA
although it is misleading to think of microbes as ‘friendly’, we should also stop thinking of
them as the enemy. In fact, we should accept that our relationship with microbes is one
basedionyinrtee cso ets
New research shows that microbes have numerous benefits for humans. Amongst other
things, they aid digestion, remove poisons, produce vitamins and may even help reduce
obesity. However, there is a growing problem. OUF POOF 19 wnmmsnmmnnnnmunnnnneene » OUP
overuse of antibiotics, and our excessive fOCUS ON 20 …m.mmmmmmmnnn Ae upsetting the
bacterial balance and may be contributing to the huge increase in allergies and immune
system problems.
A _ solution B partnership C destruction
D_ exaggeration E cleanliness F regulations
G _ illness H nutrition

Questions 21-26
Do the following statements agree with the claims of the writer in Reading Passage 2?
In boxes 21-26 on your answer sheet, write
YES if the statement agrees with the claims of the writer
NO if the statement contradicts the claims of the writer
NOT GIVEN if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this
21 Itis possible that using antibacterial products in the home fails to have the desired
effect.
22 It is a good idea to ensure that children come into contact with as few bacteria as
possible.
23 Yong’s book contains more case studies than are necessary.
24 The case study about bacteria that prevent squid from being attacked may have
limited appeal.
25 Efforts to control dengue fever have been surprisingly successful.
26 Microbes that reduce the risk of infection have already been put inside the walls of
some hospital wards.
46 >|@ p. 124
