Questions 27-30
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 27-30 on your answer sheet.
27 What point does the writer make in the first paragraph?
A Wisdom appears to be unique to the human race.
B_ Abasic assumption about wisdom may be wrong.
C Concepts of wisdom may depend on the society we belong to.
D There is still much to be discovered about the nature of wisdom.
28 What does Igor Grossmann suggest about the ability to make wise decisions?
A __Itcan vary greatly from one person to another.
B Earlier research into it was based on unreliable data.
C_ The importance of certain influences on it was underestimated.
D_ Various branches of psychology define it according to their own criteria.
29 According to the third paragraph, Grossmann claims that the level of wisdom an
individual shows
A can be greater than they think it is.
B will be different in different circumstances.
C may be determined by particular aspects of their personality.
D
should develop over time as a result of their life experiences.
30 What is described in the fifth paragraph?
A __ adifficulty encountered when attempting to reason wisely
B an example of the type of person who is likely to reason wisely
C acontroversial view about the benefits of reasoning wisely
D_ -arecommended strategy that can help people to reason wisely

Questions 31-35
Complete the summary using the list of words, A-J, below.
Write the correct letter, A-J, in boxes 31-35 on your answer sheet.
The characteristics of wise reasoning

Igor Grossmann and colleagues have established four characteristics which enable us
to make wise decisions. It is important to have a certain degree Of 31 …mmmmmnnnnmnmnnnen
regarding the extent of our knowledge, and to take into ACCOUNE 32 …nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnne
which may not be the same as our own. We should also be able to take a broad
33 nmin Of any Situation. Another key characteristic is being aware of the
likelihood of alterations in the way that people relate to each other.
Grossmann also believes that it is better to regard SCeNari0s With 34 …n..cseousnemennennnen +
By avoiding the first-person perspective, we focus MOFE ON 35 …nmnmnnnnnennnnnn ANd ON
other moral ideals, which in turn leads to wiser decision-making.

A __ opinions B_ confidence Cc view

D- modesty E problems F objectivity

G fairness H experiences i} range

J reasons

Questions 36-40
Do the following statements agree with the information given in Reading Passage 3?
In boxes 36-40 on your answer sheet, write
TRUE if the statement agrees with the information
FALSE if the statement contradicts the information
NOT GIVEN if there is no information on this
36 Students participating in the job prospects experiment could choose one of two
perspectives to take.
37 Participants in the couples experiment were aware that they were taking part in a
study about wise reasoning.
38 In the couples experiments, the length of the couples’ relationships had an impact
on the results.
39 In both experiments, the participants who looked at the situation from a more
detached viewpoint tended to make wiser decisions.
40 Grossmann believes that a person's wisdom is determined by their intelligence to
only a very limited extent.
3/0 p.124) 51
