Questions 1-5
Do the following statements agree with the information given in Reading Passage 1?
In boxes 1-5 on your answer sheet, write
TRUE if the statement agrees with the information
FALSE if the statement contradicts the information
NOT GIVEN if there is no information on this
1 The Romans’ shipbuilding skills were passed on to the Greeks and the Egyptians.
2 Skilled craftsmen were needed for the mortise and tenon method of fixing planks.
3 The later practice used by Mediterranean shipbuilders involved building the hull
before the frame.
4 The Romans called the Mediterranean Sea Mare Nostrum because they dominated
its use.
5 Most rowers on ships were people from the Roman army.

Questions 6-13

Complete the summary below.

Choose ONE WORD ONLY from the passage for each answer.

Write your answers in boxes 6-13 on your answer sheet.

Warships and merchant ships
Warships were designed so that they Were 6 …n.usnmmmmmnennnnnnnnn ANG moved
quickly. They often remained afloat after battles and were able to sail close to land as
they lacked any additional weight. A battering ram Made OF 7 .vunnsnnmmnnmnnmnennnnsn
was included in the design for attacking and damaging the timber and oars of
enemy ships. Warships, such as the ‘trireme’, had rowers on three different
Unlike warships, merchant ships had a broad 9 …nmnmmemnmnennnnnnnen that lay far
below the surface of the sea. Merchant ships were steered through the water with
the help of large rudders and a tiller bar. They had both square and 10 …
sails. On merchant ships and Warships, 11 …00mmnmnnnemnmnmemene WAS USEC tO
ensure rowers moved their oars in and out of the water at the same time.
Quantities of agricultural goOdS SUCH AS 12 omnes WETE transported
by merchant ships to two main ports in Italy. The ships were pulled to the shore by
1B vosnnsmnnnmmnninninninninne « When the weather was clear and they could see islands
or land, sailors used landmarks that they knew to help them navigate their route.
64 «> ( p. 126
