Questions 14-17
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 14-17 on your answer sheet.
14 What is the writer’s main point in the first paragraph?
A Our use of technology is having a hidden effect on us.
B_ Technology can be used to help youngsters to read.
C Travellers should be encouraged to use technology on planes.
D Playing games is a more popular use of technology than reading.
45 What main point does Sherry Turkle make about innovation?
A Technological innovation has led to a reduction in print reading.
B We should pay attention to what might be lost when innovation occurs.
C We should encourage more young people to become involved in innovation.
D_ There is a difference between developing products and developing ideas.
46 What point is the writer making in the fourth paragraph?
A Humans have an inborn ability to read and write.
B_ Reading can be done using many different mediums.
C Writing systems make unexpected demands on the brain.
D Some brain circuits adjust to whatever is required of them.
17 According to Mark Edmundson, the attitude of college students
A __ has changed the way he teaches.
B has influenced what they select to read.
C does not worry him as much as it does others.
D_ does not match the views of the general public.

Questions 18-22
Complete the summary using the list of words, A-H, below.
Write the correct letter, A-H, in boxes 18-22 on your answer sheet.
Studies on digital screen use
There have been many studies on digital screen Use, SHOWING SOME 18 …ccmmnmsnnnsninnennene
trends. Psychologist Anne Mangen gave high-school students a short story to read, half
using digital and half using print mediums. Her team then used a question-and-answer
technique to find OUt HOW 19 …cmmmnsnunnnnnen GACH Group's understanding of the plot
was. The findings showed a clear pattern in the responses, with those who read screens
finding the order of information 20 …m0msmnnnnnnnnne tO recall.
Studies by Ziming Liu show that students are tending to read 24 …ssnmmmennne
words and phrases in a text to save time. This approach, she says, gives the reader a
superficial understanding Of thé 22 uu... CONtENt Of material, leaving no time
for thought.
A fast B _ isolated C emotional D_ worrying
E many F hard G combined H thorough
Questions 23-26
Do the following statements agree with the views of the writer in Reading Passage 2?
In boxes 23-26 on your answer sheet, write
YES if the statement agrees with the views of the writer
NO if the statement contradicts the views of the writer
NOT GIVEN _ if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this
23 The medium we use to read can affect our choice of reading content.
24 Some age groups are more likely to lose their complex reading skills than others.

26 We still have opportunities to rectify the problems that technology is presenting.
>| p. 128] 89
