Questions 27-32
Reading Passage 3 has six sections, A-F.
Choose the correct heading for each section from the list of headings below.
Write the correct number, i-viii, in boxes 27-32 on your answer sheet.
List of Headings
i An increasing divergence of attitudes towards AI
ii Reasons why we have more faith in human judgement than in AI
iii The superiority of AI projections over those made by humans
iv The process by which AI can help us make good decisions
v The advantages of involving users in AI processes
vi Widespread distrust of an AI innovation
vii Encouraging openness about how AI functions
viii A surprisingly successful AI application
27 Section A
28 Section B
29 Section C
30 Section D
31 Section E
32 Section F

Questions 33-35
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 33-35 on your answer sheet.
33 What is the writer doing in Section A?

A providing a solution to a concern

B justifying an opinion about an issue

C highlighting the existence of a problem

D_ explaining the reasons for a phenomenon
34 According to Section C, why might some people be reluctant to accept AI?

A They are afraid it will replace humans in decision-making jobs.

B Its complexity makes them feel that they are at a disadvantage.

C They would rather wait for the technology to be tested over a period of time.

D_ Misunderstandings about how it works make it seem more challenging

than itis.

35 What does the writer say about the media in Section C of the text?

A __Itleads the public to be mistrustful of AI.

B
It devotes an excessive amount of attention to AI.

C Its reports of incidents involving AI are often inaccurate.

D It gives the impression that AI failures are due to designer error.

Questions 36-40
Do the following statements agree with the claims of the writer in Reading Passage 3?
In boxes 36-40 on your answer sheet, write
YES if the statement agrees with the claims of the writer
NO if the statement contradicts the claims of the writer
NOT GIVEN _ if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this
36 Subjective depictions of AI in sci-fi films make people change their opinions about
automation.
37 Portrayals of AI in media and entertainment are likely to become more positive.
38 Rejection of the possibilities of AI may have a negative effect on many people’s
lives.

40 AI applications which users are able to modify are more likely to gain consumer
approval.
94 ==> /O p. 128
