Questions 1–7
Complete the notes below.

Choose ONE WORD ONLY from the passage for each answer.

Write your answers in boxes 1–7 on your answer sheet.

Britain’s Industrial Revolution
Steam power

●   Newcomen’s steam engine was used in mines to remove water.

●   In Watt and Boulton’s steam engine, the movement of the 1………………. was linked to a gear system.

●   A greater supply of 2………………. was required to power steam engines.
Textile industry

●   Before the Industrial Revolution, spinners and weavers worked at home and in 3………………. .

●   Not as much 4………………. was needed to produce cloth once the spinning jenny and power loom were invented.

Iron industry

●   Smelting of iron ore with coke resulted in material that was better 5………………. .

●   Demand for iron increased with the growth of the 6………………. .

Communications

●   Cooke and Wheatstone patented the first telegraphy system.
●   The telegraphy system was used to prevent locomotives colliding.

Urbanisation

●   Small towns turned into cities very quickly.

●   The new cities were dirty, crowded and lacked sufficient 7………………. .

Questions 8–13
Do the following statements agree with the information given in Reading Passage 1?

In boxes 8–13 on your answer sheet, write

TRUE               if the statement agrees with the information
FALSE              if the statement contradicts the information

NOT GIVEN     if there is no information on this

8   Britain’s canal network grew rapidly so that more goods could be transported around the country.

9   Costs in the iron industry rose when the technique of smelting iron ore with coke was introduced.

10   Samuel Morse’s communication system was more reliable than that developed by William Cooke and Charles Wheatstone.

11   The economic benefits of industrialisation were limited to certain sectors of society.

12   Some skilled weavers believed that the introduction of the new textile machines would lead to job losses.
13   There was some sympathy among local people for the Luddites who were arrested near Huddersfield.