Questions 14–18
Reading Passage 2 has six paragraphs, A–F.

Which paragraph contains the following information?

Write the correct letter, A–F, in boxes 14–18 on your answer sheet.

NB   You may use any letter more than once.

14   reference to two chemical compounds which impact on performance

15   examples of strategies for minimising the effects of stress

16   how a sportsperson accounted for their own experience of stress
17   study results indicating links between stress responses and performance

18   mention of people who can influence how athletes perceive their stress responses

Questions 19–22

Complete the sentences below.

Choose ONE WORD ONLY from the passage for each answer.

Write your answers in boxes 19–22 on your answer sheet.

19   Performance stress involves many demands on the athlete, for example, coping with the possible risk of ……………………… .

20   Cortisol can cause tennis players to produce fewer good ……………………… .
21   Psychologists can help athletes to view their physiological responses as the effect of a positive feeling such as ……………………… .

22   ……………………… is an example of a psychological technique which can reduce an athlete’s stress responses.

Questions 23 and 24

Choose TWO letters, A–E.

Write the correct letters in boxes 23 and 24 on your answer sheet.

Which TWO facts about Emma Raducanu’s withdrawal from the Wimbledon tournament are mentioned in the text?

A   the stage at which she dropped out of the tournament
B   symptoms of her performance stress at the tournament

C   measures which she had taken to manage her stress levels

D   aspects of the Wimbledon tournament which increased her stress levels

E   reactions to her social media posts about her experience at Wimbledon

Questions 25 and 26
Choose TWO letters, A–E.

Write the correct letters in boxes 25 and 26 on your answer sheet.

Which TWO facts about anxiety are mentioned in Paragraph E of the text?

A   the factors which determine how severe it may be
B   how long it takes for its effects to become apparent

C   which of its symptoms is most frequently encountered

D   the types of athletes who are most likely to suffer from it

E   the harm that can result if athletes experience it too often
Reading test answers
