Questions 27–32

Complete the summary using the list of phrases, A–K, below.

Write the correct letter, A–K, in boxes 27–32 on your answer sheet.

Maryam Mirzakhani
Maryam Mirzakhani is regarded as 27………………… in the field of mathematics because she was the only female holder of the prestigious Fields Medal – a record that she retained at the time of her death. However, maths held little 28………………… for her as a child and in fact her performance was below average until she was 29………………… by a difficult puzzle that one of her siblings showed her.
Later, as a professional mathematician, she had an inquiring mind and proved herself to be 30………………… when things did not go smoothly. She said she got the greatest 31………………… from making ground-breaking discoveries and in fact she was responsible for some extremely 32………………… mathematical studies.

A   appeal
D   single

G   involved

J   satisfaction

B   determined
E   achievement

H   unique

K   intent

C   intrigued
F   devoted

I   innovative

Questions 33–37

Do the following statements agree with the claims of the writer in Reading Passage 3?

In boxes 33–37 on your answer sheet, write

YES                  if the statement agrees with the claims of the writer

NO                   if the statement contradicts the claims of the writer

NOT GIVEN     if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this

33   Many people who ended up winning prestigious intellectual prizes only reached an average standard when young.

34   Einstein’s failures as a young man were due to his lack of confidence.

35   It is difficult to reach agreement on whether some children are actually born gifted.

36   Einstein was upset by the public’s view of his life’s work.
37   Einstein put his success down to the speed at which he dealt with scientific questions.

Questions 38–40
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.

Write the correct letter in boxes 38–40 on your answer sheet.

38   What does Eyre believe is needed for children to equal ‘gifted’ standards?

A   strict discipline from the teaching staff

B   assistance from their peers in the classroom

C   the development of a spirit of inquiry towards their studies

D   the determination to surpass everyone else’s achievements

39   What is the result of Ericsson’s research?

A   Very gifted students do not need to work on improving memory skills.

B   Being born with a special gift is not the key factor in becoming expert.

C   Including time for physical exercise is crucial in raising performance.

D   10,000 hours of relevant and demanding work will create a genius.

40   In the penultimate paragraph, it is stated the key to some deprived children’s success is

A   a regular and nourishing diet at home.

B   the loving support of more than one parent.
C   a community which has well-funded facilities for learning.

D   the guidance of someone who recognises the benefits of learning.
