Questions 27–30

Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.

Write the correct letter in boxes 27–30 on your answer sheet.
27   What does the reader learn about the conversation in the first paragraph?

A   The speakers are communicating in different languages.

B   Neither of the speakers is familiar with their environment.

C   The topic of the conversation is difficult for both speakers.

D   Aspects of the conversation are challenging for both speakers.

28   What assists the electronic translator during lectures at Karlsruhe Institute of Technology?

A   the repeated content of lectures

B   the students’ reading skills

C   the languages used
D   the lecturers’ technical ability

29   When referring to The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, the writer suggests that

A   the Babel fish was considered undesirable at the time.

B   this book was not seriously intending to predict the future.

C   artificial speech translation was not a surprising development.

D   some speech translation techniques are better than others.

30   What does the writer say about sharing earpieces?

A   It is something people will get used to doing.

B   The reluctance to do this is understandable.

C   The equipment will be unnecessary in the future.

D   It is something few people need to worry about.

Questions 31–34

Complete each sentence with the correct ending, A–F, below.

Write the correct letter, A–F, in boxes 31–34 on your answer sheet.

31   Speech translation methods are developing fast in Japan

32   TV interviews that use translation voiceover methods are successful

33   Future translation systems should address people appropriately

34   Users may be able to maintain their local customs

A   but there are concerns about this.

B   as systems do not need to conform to standard practices.

C   but they are far from perfect.

D   despite the noise issues.

E   because translation is immediate.

F   and have an awareness of good manners.

Questions 35–40
Do the following statements agree with the views of the writer in Reading Passage 3?

In boxes 35–40 on your answer sheet, write
YES                  if the statement agrees with the views of the writer

NO                   if the statement contradicts the views of the writer

NOT GIVEN     if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this

35   Language translation systems will be seen as very useful throughout the academic and professional worlds.

36   The overall value of automated translation to family life is yet to be shown.

37   Automated translation could make life more difficult for immigrant families.

38   Visual aspects of language translation are being considered by scientists.

39   International scientists have found English easier to translate into other languages than Latin.
40   As far as language is concerned, there is a difference between people’s social and practical needs.

this is IELTS CAMBRIDGE 19 upload in reading using the same logic passage 1-2 go to easy 
passage.3 go to advanced
