Questions 14–17
Reading Passage 2 has six paragraphs, A–F.

Which paragraph contains the following information?

Write the correct letter, A–F, in boxes 14–17 on your answer sheet.

14   reference to the rapidly increasing need for one raw material in the transport industry
15   a rough estimate of the area of the Earth covered by the oceans
16   how a particular underwater habitat, where minerals and organisms co-exist, is formed
17   reference to the fact that the countries of the world have yet to agree on rules for the exploration of the seabed

Questions 18–23

Look at the following statements (Questions 18–23) and the list of people below.

Match each statement with the correct person or people, A-E.

Write the correct letter, A-E, in boxes 18–23 on your answer sheet.

NB   You may use any letter more than once.

18   A move away from the exploration of heavily mined reserves on land is a good idea.
19   The negative effects of undersea exploration on local areas and their inhabitants are being ignored.
20   There are more worthwhile things to extract from the sea than minerals.
21   No other form of human exploration will have such a destructive impact on marine life as deep-sea mining.
22   More is known about outer space than about what lies beneath the oceans.
23   There is one marine life habitat where experts agree mining should not take place.

List of People

A   Professor Mat Upton
B   Julie Hunter, Julian Aguon and Pradeep Singh
C   Dr Jon Copley
D   Mike Johnston
E   Verena Tunnicliffe

Questions 24–26
Complete the summary below.

Choose ONE WORD ONLY from the passage for each answer.

Write your answers in boxes 24–26 on your answer sheet.

Mining the sea floor
Mining corporations believe that the mineral resources lying under the sea may be superior to those found in the earth. They also say that these can be removed without producing much 24………………… .

The extraction is often done by adapting the 25………………… that has already been used to work on land. The method of excavation involves removing the seawater from the slurry that is brought up to ships and returning it to the seabed. However, concerned groups strongly believe that 26………………… is necessary due to the possible number of unidentified consequences.
