Questions 14-18
Reading Passage 2 has seven paragraphs, A-G.
Which paragraph contains the following information?
Write the correct letter, A-G, in boxes 14-18 on your answer sheet.
NB You may use any letter more than once.
14 adescription of how people misused a bike-sharing scheme
15 an explanation of why a proposed bike-sharing scheme was turned down
16 areference to a person being unable to profit from their work
17 an explanation of the potential savings a bike-sharing scheme would bring
18 areference to the problems a bike-sharing scheme was intended to solve
Questions 19 and 20
Choose TWO letters, A-E.
Write the correct letters in boxes 19 and 20 on your answer sheet.
Which TWO of the following statements are made in the text about the Amsterdam
bike-sharing scheme of 1999?
A It was initially opposed by a government department.
Blt failed when a partner in the scheme withdrew support.
C It aimed to be more successful than the Copenhagen scheme.
D  Itwas made possible by a change in people’s attitudes.
E It attracted interest from a range of bike designers.

Ed

OE _ A A_t______€___HéH _ HH ____HHHHHH_HHHsHHfHHHHHkfoHkHH_H_- |
Questions 21 and 22 |
Choose TWO letters, A-E. |
Write the correct letters in boxes 21 and 22 on your answer sheet.
Which TWO of the following statements are made in the text about Amsterdam today?
A The majority of residents would like to prevent all cars from entering the city.
B There is little likelihood of the city having another bike-sharing scheme.
C More trips in the city are made by bike than by any other form of transport.
D  Abike-sharing scheme would benefit residents who use public transport.
E The city has a reputation as a place that welcomes cyclists.
|
|
|
=) 7S BO DEH THAT LISTENINGEREADING CK we

Ej

Questions 23-26
Complete the summary below.
Choose ONE WORD ONLY from the passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 23-26 on your answer sheet.

The first urban bike-sharing scheme
The first bike-sharing scheme was the idea of the Dutch group Provo. The people who
belonged to this Group WEE 23 …wssssninnenne » THEY were concerned about damage
to the environment and about 24 wuss » aNd believed that the bike-sharing
scheme would draw attention to these issues. As well as painting some bikes white, they
handed Out 25 ccs: that condemned the use of cars.
However, the scheme was not a great success: almost as quickly as Provo left
the bikes around the City, thE 26 oo... COOK them away. According to
schimmelpennink, the scheme was intended to be symbolic. The idea was to get people
thinking about the issues.
24 : BOJDUJDOANMIKVINANGICHINEDXAG ere of a
i :
