Questions 27-31
) Look at the following statements (Questions 27-31) and the list of researchers below.
Match each statement with the correct researcher, A-F.
Write the correct letter, A-F, in boxes 27-31 on your answer sheet.
NB You may use any letter more than once.
2 27 Hotel managers need to know what would encourage good staff to remain.
28 The actions of managers may make staff feel they shouldn't move to a different
employer.
29 Little is done in the hospitality industry to help workers improve their skills.
30 Staff are less likely to change jobs if cooperation is encouraged.
31 Dissatisfaction with pay is not the only reason why hospitality workers change jobs.
List of Researchers.
A Pfeffer

B Lucas
G  Maroudas et al.
D Ngand Sorensen
E Enz and Siguaw

F __Deery

Ed

Questions 32-35
Do the following statements agree with the claims of the writer in Reading Passage 3?
In boxes 32-35 on your answer sheet, write
YES if the statement agrees with the claims of the writer
NO if the statement contradicts the claims of the writer
NOT GIVEN if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this
32 One reason for high staff turnover in the hospitality industry is poor morale.
33 Research has shown that staff have a tendency to dislike their workplace.
34 An improvement in working conditions and job security makes staff satisfied with
their jobs.
35 Staff should be allowed to choose when they take breaks during the working day.
Questions 36-40
Complete the summary below.
Choose ONE WORD ONLY from the passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 36-40 on your answer sheet.
Fun at work
Tews, Michel and Stafford carried out research on staff in an American chain of
BG ocean + LNey discovered that activities designed for staff to have fun
IMPrOVEed their B7 ou... sss » ANd that management involvement led to lower
Staff BB occ « [HEY also found that the activities needed to fit with both the
COMPANY'S $9 ooo AN The 40 oo OF the staff. A balance was
required between a degree of freedom and maintaining work standards.
28 .
eXO}ie t= [Ln NAT LISTIENING+READING a
