Questions 14-26 , which are based on Reading
Passage 2 on the following pages.
Questions 14-20
Reading Passage 2 has seven paragraphs, A-G.
Choose the correct heading for each paragraph from the list of headings below.
Write the correct number, i-ix, in boxes 14-20 on your answer sheet.

List of Headings
Evidence of innovative environment management practices
ii An undisputed answer to a question about the moai
iii The future of the moai statues
iv A theory which supports a local belief
v The future of Easter Island
vi Two opposing views about the Rapanui people
vii Destruction outside the inhabitants' control
viii How the statues made a situation worse
ix Diminishing food resources
Paragraph A
Paragraph B
Paragraph C
Paragraph D
Paragraph E
Paragraph F
Paragraph G

Questions 21-24
Complete the summary below.
Choose ONE WORD ONLY from the passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 21-24 on your answer sheet.
Jared Diamond's View
Diamond believes that the Polynesian settlers on Rapa Nui destroyed its forests, cutting
down its trees for fuel and clearing land for 21 … . Twentieth-century discoveries
of pollen prove that Rapu Nui had once been covered in palm forests, which had turned
into grassland by the time the Europeans arrived on the island. When the islanders were
no longer able to build the 22 … they needed to go fishing, they began using the
island's 23 … as a food source, according to Diamond. Diamond also claims that
the moai were built to show the power of the island's chieftains, and that the methods of
transporting the statues needed not only a great number of people, but also a great deal
of24 … .
Questions 25 and 26
Choose TWO letters, A-E.
Write the correct letters in boxes 25 and 26 on your answer sheet.
On what points do Hunt and Lipo disagree with Diamond?

A the period when the moai were created
B how the moai were transported
C the impact of the moai on Rapanui society
D how the moai were carved
E the origins of the people who made the moai
