Questions 14-18
Choose the correct letter. A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 14-18 on your answer sheet.
14 In the first paragraph, the writer makes a point that
A the director should plan the sound track at an early stage in filming.
B it would be wrong to overlook the contribution of sound to the artistry of films.
C the music industry can have a beneficial influence on sound in film.
D it is important for those working on the sound in a film to have sole
responsibility for it.
15 One reason that the writer refers to Humphrey Bogart is to exemplify
A the importance of the actor and the character appearing to have similar
personalities.
B the audience's wish that actors are visually appropriate for their roles.
C the value of the actor having had similar feelings to the character.
D the audience's preference for dialogue to be as authentic as possible.
16 In the third paragraph, the writer suggests that
A audiences are likely to be critical of film dialogue that does not reflect their own
experience.
B film dialogue that appears to be dull may have a specific purpose.
C filmmakers vary considerably in the skill with which they handle dialogue.
D the most successful films are those with dialogue of a high quality.
17 What does the writer suggest about Bringing Up Baby?
A The plot suffers from the filmmaker's wish to focus on humorous dialogue.
B The dialogue helps to make it one of the best comedy films ever produced.
C There is a mismatch between the speed of the dialogue and the speed of
actions.
D The nature of the dialogue emphasises key elements of the film.
18 The writer refers to the 'click' of a door to make the point that realistic sounds
A are often used to give the audience a false impression of events in the film.
B may be interpreted in different ways by different members of the audience.
C may be modified in order to manipulate the audience's response to the film.
D tend to be more significant in films presenting realistic situations.

Questions 19-23
Do the following statements agree with the information given in Reading Passage 2?
In boxes 19-23 on your answer sheet, write
TRUE if the statement agrees with the information
FALSE if the statement contradicts the information
NOT GIVEN if there is no information on this
19 Audiences are likely to be surprised if a film lacks background music.
20 Background music may anticipate a development in a film.
21 Background music has more effect on some people than on others.
22 Background music may help the audience to make certain connections within
the film.
23 Audiences tend to be aware of how the background music is affecting them.

Questions 24-26
Complete each sentence with the correct ending, A-E, below.
Write the correct letter, A-E, in boxes 24-26 on your answer sheet.
24 The audience's response to different parts of a film can be controlled
25 The feelings and motivations of characters become clear
26 A character seems to be a real person rather than an actor
A when the audience listens to the dialogue.
B if the film reflects the audience's own concerns.
C if voice, sound and music are combined appropriately.
D when the director is aware of how the audience will respond.
E when the actor's appearance, voice and moves are
consistent with each other.
