Questions 14-18
Reading Passage 2 has seven sections, A-G.
Which section contains the following information?
Write the correct letter, A-G, in boxes 14-18 on your answer sheet.
14 reference to the amount of time when a car is not in use
15 mention of several advantages of driverless vehicles for individual road-users
16 reference to the opportunity of choosing the most appropriate vehicle for each trip
17 anestimate of how long it will take to overcome a number of problems
18 a suggestion that the use of driverless cars may have no effect on the number of

vehicles manufactured
Questions 19-22
Complete the summary below.
Choose NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS from the passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 19-22 on your answer sheet.

The impact of driverless cars

Figures from the Transport Research Laboratory indicate that most motor accidents
are partly due to 19 ou. matmmnununnunna » $0 the introduction of driverless vehicles
will result in greater safety. In addition to the direct benefits of automation, it may bring
other advantages. For example, schemes fr 20 uu... Will be more
workable, especially in towns and cities, resulting in fewer cars on the road.
According to the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, there could
be a 43 percent drop in 24 oe ecnncnnnnnnennnanmnnen OF Cars. However, this would mean
that the yearly 22 Qn munnnnununnunune OF @ach car would, on average, be twice as
high as it currently is. This would lead to a higher turnover of vehicles, and therefore no
reduction in automotive manufacturing.

Questions 23 and 24
Choose TWO letters, A-E.
Write the correct letters in boxes 23 and 24 on your answer sheet.
Which TWO benefits of automated vehicles does the writer mention?
A Car travellers could enjoy considerable cost savings.
B__ It would be easier to find parking spaces in urban areas.
C Travellers could spend journeys doing something other than driving.
D People who find driving physically difficult could travel independently.
E  Areduction in the number of cars would mean a reduction in pollution. |
Questions 25 and 26
Choose TWO letters, A-E.
Write the correct letters in boxes 25 and 26 on your answer sheet.
Which TWO challenges to automated vehicle development does the writer mention?
A making sure the general public has confidence in automated vehicles
B_ managing the pace of transition from conventional to automated vehicles
C deciding how to compensate professional drivers who become redundant
D _ setting up the infrastructure to make roads suitable for automated vehicles
E getting automated vehicles to adapt to various different driving conditions |
>| p.120| 23
! ! |
