Questions 27-32
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 27-32 on your answer sheet.
27 The writer refers to visitors to New York to illustrate the point that
A __ exploration is an intrinsic element of being human.
B most people are enthusiastic about exploring.
C exploration can lead to surprising results.
D most people find exploration daunting.
28 According to the second paragraph, what is the writer’s view of explorers?
A Their discoveries have brought both benefits and disadvantages.
B_ Their main value is in teaching others.
C_ They act on an urge that is common to everyone.
D They tend to be more attracted to certain professions than to others.
29 The writer refers to a description of Egdon Heath to suggest that
A Hardy was writing about his own experience of exploration.
B_ Hardy was mistaken about the nature of exploration.
C_Hardy’s aim was to investigate people’s emotional states.
D__Hardy’s aim was to show the attraction of isolation.
30 In the fourth paragraph, the writer refers to ‘a golden age’ to suggest that
A __ the amount of useful information produced by exploration has decreased.
B__ fewer people are interested in exploring than in the 19th century.
C recent developments have made exploration less exciting.
D_ we are wrong to think that exploration is no longer necessary.
31 In the sixth paragraph, when discussing the definition of exploration, the writer
argues that
A __ people tend to relate exploration to their own professional interests.
B certain people are likely to misunderstand the nature of exploration.
C__ the generally accepted definition has changed over time.
D historians and scientists have more valid definitions than the general public.
32 In the last paragraph, the writer explains that he is interested in
A how someone's personality is reflected in their choice of places to visit.
B the human ability to cast new light on places that may be familiar.
C how travel writing has evolved to meet changing demands.
D _ the feelings that writers develop about the places that they explore.

Questions 33-37
Look at the following statements (Questions 33-37) and the list of explorers below.
Match each statement with the correct explorer, A-E.
Write the correct letter, A-E, in boxes 33-37 on your answer sheet.
NB You may use any letter more than once.
33 He referred to the relevance of the form of transport used.
34 He described feelings on coming back home after a long journey.
35 He worked for the benefit of specific groups of people.
36 He did not consider learning about oneself an essential part of exploration.
37 He defined exploration as being both unique and of value to others.
List of Explorers
A Peter Fleming
B_ Ran Fiennes
C Chris Bonington |
D Robin Hanbury-Tenison |
E Wilfred Thesiger |
Questions 38-40 |
Complete the summary below.
Choose NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS from the passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 38-40 on your answer sheet.
The writer’s own bias
The writer has experience of a large NUMbET Of 38 …esmsnsmnnnennnuenunneeene » AND
was the first stranger that certain previoUSly 39 u...cceennennnnnne POOPIE
had encountered. He believes there is no need for further exploration of Earth’s
90 nnniitnnnnnnnnninnnana » @XC@pt to answer specific questions such as how buffalo eat. |
>|@ p.120| 27 }
