Questions 14-17
Reading Passage 2 has six paragraphs, A-F.
Which paragraph contains the following information?
Write the correct letter, A-F, in boxes 14-17 on your answer sheet.
NB You may use any letter more than once.
14 areference to how further disappearance of multiple species could be avoided
15 explanation of a way of reproducing an extinct animal using the DNA of only that
species
16 reference to a habitat which has suffered following the extinction of a species
17 mention of the exact point at which a particular species became extinct
Questions 18-22
Complete the summary below.
Choose NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS from the passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 18-22 on your answer sheet.
The woolly mammoth revival project
Professor George Church and his team are trying to identify the
1B voccccsssnststnmntutnnenn Which enabled mammoths to live in the tundra. The findings
could help preserve the mammoth’s close relative, the endangered Asian elephant.
According to Church, introducing Asian elephants to the tundra would involve certain
physical adaptations to MINIMISE 19 …mmmnsnnmnnnnnnen « TO Survive in the tundra,
the species would need to have the mammoth-like features of thicker hair,
20 eececnieeentrnennenenneneneannnne OF A FEDUCED SIZE AN MOTE 21 weoscmecmesnnetuenaneneneeneet +
Repopulating the tundra with mammoths or Asian elephant/mammoth hybrids would
also have an impact on the environment, which could help to reduce temperatures and
DOCFEASE 22 oa ecsecssensseneieeaneenetnenannnines +

(B\ 2e0RS
Nw, www.

Questions 23-26
Look at the following statements (Questions 23-26) and the list of people below.
Match each statement with the correct person, A, B or C.
Write the correct letter, A, B or C, in boxes 23-26 on your answer sheet.
NB You may use any letter more than once.
23 Reintroducing an extinct species to its original habitat could improve the health of a
particular species living there.
24 It is important to concentrate on the causes of an animal's extinction.
25 Aspecies brought back from extinction could have an important beneficial impact
on the vegetation of its habitat.
26 Our current efforts at preserving biodiversity are insufficient.
List of People
A Ben Novak
B_ Michael Archer
C Beth Shapiro
(OB p.122] 43
