Questions 27-31
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 27-31 on your answer sheet.
27 When referring to laughter in the first paragraph, the writer emphasises
A __ its impact on language.
B _ its function in human culture.
C _ its value to scientific research.
D its universality in animal societies.
28 What does the writer suggest about Charley Douglass?
A He understood the importance of enjoying humour in a group setting.
B_ He believed that TV viewers at home needed to be told when to laugh.
C He wanted his shows to appeal to audiences across the social spectrum.
D He preferred shows where audiences were present in the recording studio.
29 What makes the Santa Cruz study particularly significant?
A _ the various different types of laughter that were studied
B the similar results produced by a wide range of cultures
C the number of different academic disciplines involved
D__ the many kinds of people whose laughter was recorded
30 Which of the following happened in the San Diego study?
A Some participants became very upset.
B Participants exchanged roles.
C Participants who had not met before became friends.
D_ Some participants were unable to laugh.
31 Inthe fifth paragraph, what did the results of the San Diego study suggest?
A tis clear whether a dominant laugh is produced by a high- or low-status
person.
B__Low-status individuals in a position of power will still produce submissive
laughs.
C The submissive laughs of low- and high-status individuals are surprisingly
similar.
D_ High-status individuals can always be identified by their way of laughing.

(\ SAGE

Questions 32-36 |

Complete the summary using the list of words, A-H, below. j

Write the correct letter, A-H, in boxes 32-36 on your answer sheet. |

The benefits of humour

In one study at Australian National University, randomly chosen groups of participants

were shown one of three videos, each designed to generate a different kind of |

32 veccsonenmnntnnnannnnnn + When all participants were then given a deliberately frustrating

task to do, it was found that those who had watched the 33 …wsscsuunennnene VICEO |

persisted with the task for longer and tried harder to accomplish the task than either of 1

the other two groups. |
Asecond study in which participants were asked to perform a particularly

34 oo eenrnnnnnnnnnee taSk produced similar results. According to researchers David j

Cheng and Lu Wang, these findings suggest that humour not only reduces |

35 ooccsssistnnnann AND helps build social connections but it may also have a |

36 octane Cffect on the body and mind.

A laughter B relaxing C boring |

D anxiety E _ stimulating F emotion ]

G enjoyment H = amusing |

j

47 1

(fa) eens

Questions 37-40
Do the following statements agree with the claims of the writer in Reading Passage 3?
In boxes 37-40 on your answer sheet, write
YES if the statement agrees with the claims of the writer
NO if the statement contradicts the claims of the writer
NOT GIVEN if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this
37 Participants in the Santa Cruz study were more accurate at identifying the laughs of
friends than those of strangers.
38 The researchers in the San Diego study were correct in their predictions regarding
the behaviour of the high-status individuals.
39 The participants in the Australian National University study were given a fixed
amount of time to complete the task focusing on employee profiles.
40 Cheng and Wang’s conclusions were in line with established notions regarding task
performance.
48/0 p. 122
