Questions 27-31
Complete each sentence with the correct ending, A-F, below.
Write the correct letter, A-F, in boxes 27-31 on your answer sheet.
27 In fairy tales, details of the plot
28 Tehrani rejects the idea that the useful lessons for life in fairy tales
29 Various theories about the social significance of fairy tales
30 Insights into the development of fairy tales
31 All the fairy tales analysed by Tehrani
A may be provided through methods used in biological research.
B are the reason for their survival.
C__ show considerable global variation.
D contain animals which transform to become humans.
E were originally spoken rather than written.
F have been developed without factual basis.

(B\ 2e0RS
Nw, www.

Questions 32-36 |
Complete the summary using the list of words, A-I, below. |
Write the correct letter, A-I, in boxes 32-36 on your answer sheet. ]
Phylogenetic analysis of Little Red Riding Hood
Tehrani used techniques from evolutionary biology to find OUt If 32 o.com |
existed among 58 stories from around the world. He also wanted to know which i
aspects of the stories had fewest 33 …ccmsmnnnanne » AS HE believed these aspects :
would be the most important ones. Contrary to other beliefs, he found that some |
34 oo ssistiennnnn that were included in a story tended to change over time, |
and that the middle of a story seemed no more important than the other parts. |
He was also surprised that parts of a story which seemed to provide some sort of

35 acne WETE UNiMportant. The aspect that he found most important in a
SUOTY’S SUPVIVAl WAS 36 Qe sssesssieenenennnenes 4 '
A ending B events Cc warning i
D links E records F variations j
G horror H_ people | plot |

(fa) eens

Questions 37-40
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 37-40 on your answer sheet.
37. What method did Jamie Tehrani use to test his ideas about fairy tales?
A He compared oral and written forms of the same stories.
B_ He looked at many different forms of the same basic story.
C_ He looked at unrelated stories from many different countries.
D He contrasted the development of fairy tales with that of living creatures.
38 When discussing Tehrani’s views, Jack Zipes suggests that
A Tehrani ignores key changes in the role of women.
B _ stories which are too horrific are not always taken seriously.
C Tehrani overemphasises the importance of violence in stories.
D features of stories only survive if they have a deeper significance.
39 Why does Tehrani refer to Chinese and Japanese fairy tales?
A to indicate that Jack Zipes’ theory is incorrect
B__ to suggest that crime is a global problem
C to imply that all fairy tales have a similar meaning
D to add more evidence for Jack Zipes’ ideas
40 What does Mathias Clasen believe about fairy tales?
A They area safe way of learning to deal with fear.
B_ They are a type of entertainment that some people avoid.
C_ They reflect the changing values of our society.
D_ They reduce our ability to deal with real-world problems.
70 => |G p. 124
