Questions 14-17
Reading Passage 2 has seven sections, A-G.
Which section contains the following information?
Write the correct letter, A-G, in boxes 14-17 on your answer sheet.
NB You may use any letter more than once.

14 a mention of negative attitudes towards stadium building projects
15 figures demonstrating the environmental benefits of a certain stadium
16 examples of the wide range of facilities available at some new stadiums
17 reference to the disadvantages of the stadiums built during a certain era

Questions 18-22
Complete the summary below.
Choose ONE WORD ONLY from the passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 18-22 on your answer sheet.

Roman amphitheatres
The Roman stadiums of Europe have proved very versatile. The amphitheatre of Arles, for example, was converted first into a 18 ……………………, then into a residential area and finally into an arena where spectators could watch 19 …………………… Meanwhile, the arena in Verona, one of the oldest Roman amphitheatres, is famous today as a venue where 20 …………………… is performed. The site of Lucca's amphitheatre has also been used for many purposes over the centuries, including the storage of 21 …………………… It is now a market square with 22 …………………… and homes incorporated into the remains of the Roman amphitheatre.

Questions 23 and 24
Choose TWO letters, A-E.
Write the correct letters in boxes 23 and 24 on your answer sheet.

When comparing twentieth-century stadiums to ancient amphitheatres in Section D, which TWO negative features does the writer mention?
A They are less imaginatively designed.
B They are less spacious.
C They are in less convenient locations.
D They are less versatile.
E They are made of less durable materials.

Questions 25 and 26
Choose TWO letters, A-E.
Write the correct letters in boxes 25 and 26 on your answer sheet.

Which TWO advantages of modern stadium design does the writer mention?
A offering improved amenities for the enjoyment of sports events
B bringing community life back into the city environment
C facilitating research into solar and wind energy solutions
D enabling local residents to reduce their consumption of electricity
E providing a suitable site for the installation of renewable power generators