Questions 27-31
Complete the summary using the list of phrases, A-J, below.
Write the correct letter, A-J, in boxes 27-31 on your answer sheet.
The story behind the hunt for Charles II
Charles II’s father was executed by the Parliamentarian forces in 1649. Charles II
then formed a 27 … With the Scots, and in order to become King of
Scots, he abandoned an important 28 . ........................ that was held by his father
and had contributed to his father's death. The opposing sides then met outside
Worcester in 1651. The battle led to a 29 for the Parliamentarians
and Charles had to flee for his life. A 30  … WAS offered for Charles's
capture, but after six weeks spent in hiding, he eventually managed to reach the
31... Of continental Europe.
A military innovation B large reward C widespread conspiracy
D relative safety E new government F decisive victory
G political debate H strategic alliance I popular solution
J religious conviction
Questions 32-35
Do the following statements agree with the claims of the writer in Reading Passage 3?
In boxes 32-35 on your answer sheet, write
YES if the statement agrees with the claims of the writer
NO if the statement contradicts the claims of the writer
NOT GIVEN if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this
32 Charles chose Pepys for the task because he considered him to be trustworthy.
33 Charles's personal recollection of the escape lacked sufficient detail.
34 Charles indicated to Pepys that he had planned his escape before the battle.
35 The inclusion of Charles's account is a positive aspect of the book.

Questions 36-40
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 36-40 on your answer sheet.

36 What is the reviewer's main purpose in the first paragraph?
A to describe what happened during the Battle of Worcester
B to give an account of the circumstances leading to Charles II's escape
C to provide details of the Parliamentarians' political views
D to compare Charles II's beliefs with those of his father

37 Why does the reviewer include examples of the fugitives' behaviour in the third paragraph?
A to explain how close Charles II came to losing his life
B to suggest that Charles II's supporters were badly prepared
C to illustrate how the events of the six weeks are brought to life
D to argue that certain aspects are not as well known as they should be

38 What point does the reviewer make about Charles II in the fourth paragraph?
A He chose to celebrate what was essentially a defeat.
B He misunderstood the motives of his opponents.
C He aimed to restore people's faith in the monarchy.
D He was driven by a desire to be popular.

39 What does the reviewer say about Charles Spencer in the fifth paragraph?
A His decision to write the book comes as a surprise.
B He takes an unbiased approach to the subject matter.
C His descriptions of events would be better if they included more detail.
D He chooses language that is suitable for a twenty-first-century audience.

40 When the reviewer says the book 'doesn't quite hit the mark', she is making the point that
A it overlooks the impact of events on ordinary people.
B it lacks an analysis of prevalent views on monarchy.
C it omits any references to the deceit practised by Charles II during his time in hiding.
D it fails to address whether Charles II's experiences had a lasting influence on him.
