Questions 27-31
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 27-31 on your answer sheet.
27 The purpose of the first paragraph is to
A defend particular ideas.
B compare certain beliefs.
C  disprove a widely held view.
D outline a common assumption.
28 What are the writers doing in the second paragraph?
A criticising an opinion
B  justifying a standpoint
C explaining an approach
D supporting an argument
29 In the third paragraph, what do the writers suggest about Darwin and Einstein?
A They represent an exception to a general rule.
B Their way of working has been misunderstood.
C  They are an ideal which others should aspire to.
D Their achievements deserve greater recognition.
30 John Nicholson is an example of a person whose idea
A established his reputation as an influential scientist.
B was only fully understood at a later point in history.
C laid the foundations for someone else's breakthrough.
D initially met with scepticism from the scientific community.
31 What is the key point of interest about the ‘acey-deucy’ stirrup placement?
the simple reason why it was invented
the enthusiasm with which it was adopted
the research that went into its development
the cleverness of the person who first used it 

Questions 32-36
Do the following statements agree with the claims of the writer in Reading Passage 3?
In boxes 32-36 on your answer sheet, write
YES if the statement agrees with the claims of the writer
NO if the statement contradicts the claims of the writer
NOT GIVEN if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this
32 Acknowledging people such as Plato or da Vinci as geniuses will help us
understand the process by which great minds create new ideas.
33 The Law of Effect was discovered at a time when psychologists were seeking a
scientific reason why creativity occurs.
34 The Law of Effect states that no planning is involved in the behaviour of organisms.
35 The Law of Effect sets out clear explanations about the sources of new ideas and
behaviours.
36 Many scientists are now turning away from the notion of intelligent design
and genius.

Questions 37-40
Complete the summary using the list of words, A-G, below.
Write the correct letter, A-G, in boxes 37-40 on your answer sheet.
The origins of creative behaviour
The traditional view of scientific discovery is that breakthroughs happen when a
single great mind has sudden 37 ae . Although this can occur, it is
not often the case. Advances are more likely to be the result of a longer process.
In some cases, this process involves 38 oo... ..ecccssssssesssneeee ., Such as Nicholson's
theory about proto-elements. In others, simple necessity may provoke innovation,
as with Westrope's decision to modify the position of his riding stirrups. There is also
often an element of 39 oo , for example, the coincidence of ideas that
led to the invention of the Post-It note. With both the Law of Natural Selection and
the Law of Effect, there may be no clear 40 issis involved, but merely a
process of variation and selection.
A invention B goals C compromise
D mistakes E luck F inspiration
G experiments
23|Q p.122) 49