Questions 27-31
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 27-31 on your answer sheet.

27 What point does Shester make about Barr's book in the first paragraph?
A It gives a highly original explanation for urban development.
B Elements of Barr's research papers are incorporated throughout the book.
C Other books that are available on the subject have taken a different approach.
D It covers a range of factors that affected the development of New York.

28 How does Shester respond to the information in the book about tenements?
A She describes the reasons for Barr's interest.
B She indicates a potential problem with Barr's analysis.
C She compares Barr's conclusion with that of other writers.
D She provides details about the sources Barr used for his research.

29 What does Shester say about chapter six of the book?
A It contains conflicting data.
B It focuses too much on possible trends.
C It is too specialised for most readers.
D It draws on research that is out of date.

30 What does Shester suggest about the chapters focusing on the 1920s building boom?
A The information should have been organised differently.
B More facts are needed about the way construction was financed.
C The explanation that is given for the building boom is unlikely.
D Some parts will have limited appeal to certain people.

31 What impresses Shester the most about the chapter on land values?
A the broad time period that is covered
B the interesting questions that Barr asks
C the nature of the research into the topic
D the recommendations Barr makes for the future

Questions 32-35
Do the following statements agree with the claims of the writer in Reading Passage 3?
In boxes 32-35 on your answer sheet, write
YES if the statement agrees with the claims of the writer
NO if the statement contradicts the claims of the writer
NOT GIVEN if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this

32 The description in the first chapter of how New York probably looked from the air in the early 1600s lacks interest.
33 Chapters two and three prepare the reader well for material yet to come.
34 The biggest problem for many nineteenth-century New York immigrant neighbourhoods was a lack of amenities.
35 In the nineteenth century, New York's immigrant neighbourhoods tended to concentrate around the harbour.

Questions 36-40
Complete the summary using the list of phrases, A-J, below.
Write the correct letter, A-J, in boxes 36-40 on your answer sheet.

The bedrock myth
In chapter seven, Barr indicates how the lack of bedrock close to the surface does not explain why skyscrapers are absent from 36 …………………… He points out that although the cost of foundations increases when bedrock is deep below the surface, this cannot be regarded as 37 ……………………, especially when compared to the cost of foundations in Chicago. A particularly enjoyable part of the chapter was Barr's account of how foundations are built. He describes not only how 38 …………………… are made possible by the use of caissons, but he also discusses their 39 …………………… The chapter is well researched but relatively easy to understand.

A development plans
B deep excavations
C great distance
D excessive expense
E impossible tasks
F associated risks
G water level
H specific areas
I total expenditure
J construction guidelines