Questions 14-18
Reading Passage 2 has six sections, A-F.
Which section contains the following information?
Write the correct letter, A-F, in boxes 14-18 on your answer sheet.
14 an explanation of the need for research to focus on individuals with a fairly
consistent income
15 examples of the sources the database has been compiled from
16 an account of one individual's refusal to obey an order
17 a reference to a region being particularly suited to research into the link between
education and economic growth
18 examples of the items included in a list of personal possessions
Questions 19-22
Complete the summary below.
Choose ONE WORD from the passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 19-22 on your answer sheet.
Demographic reconstruction of two German communities
The database that Ogilvie and her team has compiled sheds light on the lives of a
range of individuals, as well as those of their 19. eee, over a 300-year
period. For example, Ana Regina and Magdalena Riethmüllerin were reprimanded
for reading while they should have been paying attention to a 20 .. -
There was also Juliana Schweickherdt, who came to the notice of the weavers' guild
in the year 1752 for breaking guild rules. As a punishment, she was later given a
21... Cases like this illustrate how the guilds could prevent
22... and stop skilled people from working.

Questions 23 and 24
Choose TWO letters, A-E.
Write the correct letters in boxes 23 and 24 on your answer sheet.
Which TWO of the following statements does the writer make about literacy rates in
Section B?
A Very little research has been done into the link between high literacy rates and
improved earnings.
B Literacy rates in Germany between 1600 and 1900 were very good.
C There is strong evidence that high literacy rates in the modern world result in
economic growth.
D England is a good example of how high literacy rates helped a country
industrialise.
E Economic growth can help to improve literacy rates.
Questions 25 and 26
Choose TWO letters, A-E.
Write the correct letters in boxes 25 and 26 on your answer sheet.
Which TWO of the following statements does the writer make in Section F about guilds
in German-speaking Central Europe between 1600 and 1900?

They helped young people to learn a skill.
They were opposed to people moving to an area for work.
They kept better records than guilds in other parts of the world.
They opposed practices that threatened their control over a trade.
They predominantly consisted of wealthy merchants.